## Answers to Paxos Questions

You should write down your answers to the [questions](README.md#questions) for Lab 4 in this file.

1. It is not possible unless the implementation is naive because the concept of paxos is associated with reaching consensus amongst nodes in a distributed environment such that eventually a decision is made by the nodes in conjunction with the various forms of system synchrony - Synchronous, Asynchronous and Partial. This means essentially either a consensus is reached or not hence discouraging infinite loops.
2. No, a PREP message is only associated with a node in a distributed system declaring its intention of becoming a leader of a particular round hence expecting a PROM acknowledgement from majority of the rest of nodes to proceed with its execution. In this case, the round number is what is associated with the PREP message and not the value to be agreed on
3. Yes it does. The concept of increasing proposal round is to deal with the issues that arises when it comes to network latency and concurrent operations that will cause processes or nodes to run  executions that disregards causal or ordering which paxos exhibits in its implementation. Essentially, each proposer has a stable storage and hence remebers the highest number proposal it has tried to issue thereby beginning another round or phase with a value higher than what it has previously used.
4. "Value last accepted" is the last dataset processed and thus comprises of the which leader, at what round, as well as the proposed value agreed on upon consensus buliding. The "instance" in this case refers to the round for consesus building that is characterized by several balloting attempt in the quest to reaching consensus on a proposed value.
5. If there are several proposers, they may step on one another. To prohibit any accepter from accepting accept(n, v) once it has responded to prepare(n+1), it's enough to have two precisely synchronized proposers alternating sending out prepare messages.
   The solution is to assure that at some point in the future, there is exactly one proposer who does not fail.
   When a proposer realizes it isn't going to win a round (e.g., by receiving a nack or by waiting long enough to recognize it won't be getting any more acks soon), it chooses a progressively big random delay before starting a new round; as a result, two or more leaders will eventually start at different times, allowing one to finish without interrupting one another.
6. PREP message will be seen by all acceptors but acceptors will only send acknowledgement(PROM) to the proposer whose current round number is higher than the last round number in the stable storage of the acceptor.
7. fdf
8. Yes, it is possible for an acceptor to accept a value in round 1 and another value in round 2. For every round there is a ballot for a value so if increasing round number requirement is statisfied by both proposer and acceptors and value proposed in ACCEPT phase is decided on by majority of quorumin by sending a LRN message to the proposer, then acceptor can take on a new value.
9. For a value to be chosen, majority of quorum must acknowldege and send a LRN message to proposer upon satisfying the requirement of  increasing round number. Whiles a chosen value is decided unanimously by acknowledgement from majority of quorum, a learned value is a an acknowledgemnt from individual nodes on what value they have in stable storage upon last consensus.
